so there are three questions i want to
address today and they are all about
blogging so if you are thinking about
starting to blog or want to
optimize your blog posts
these three questions might be relevant
to you
number one
are blogs the best channel to learn
valuable information what other channels
would you recommend
well it really depends depends it
depends on what you want to learn if you
want to do a lot of diy stuff you know
youtube channel is probably the best
and
if you want to learn about marketing i
would say blog is still a way to go but
many people are actually um sharing
their uh marketing knowledge and
expertise uh using podcasts and also a
videos
so it really depends on your content
consumption preference
what kind of format do you like
in the b2b side of things what i have
discovered
majority of the b2b marketers they like
to read
they don't like to you know being
disturbed they just want to go to they
want to do a google search and the
relevant content that will come up and
they are just reading about it okay so
blog is still a very popular format
especially you want to reach out to a
b2b marketers
and it's also a very popular if you want
to reach out to it managers what i have
noticed many it managers again they like
to read but for a very specific how-to
they probably like to watch the youtube
channel just to check things out
but
it really depends on your audience right
it i blogs the best channels to learn
about information from my perspective
yes it is again depends on the topics
and if you want to write a blog or you
want to use a blog to share the
information
in addition to your ability to write a
lot of time you have to think about and
are you kind of like a writer
or are you kind of like
a showman if you really like to showcase
your knowledge by talking maybe the
video is the best format but if you like
to write you know what blog is a good
format so
you have to determine what is your
preference in terms to share your
knowledge
right can you hire the ghost writers to
actually do it for you and for your
company totally
many many companies they actually have a
ghostwriters that actually write on
their behalf
and they also write for the independent
consultants and also for
for
your
job scope
and that's totally fine if you're
actually not good in terms of writing
but you want to hire someone else to
write on your behalf definitely do that
and
the popular side to actually get good
writers from my perspective is up work
you uh uh u-p-w-o-r-k
upwork.com that's actually a site that
actually have a lot of freelancers that
you can tap into uh for multiple
different kind of jobs so check that out
any other channel would i recommend in
terms of getting content like i said
depending on the topics what you are
doing and you can determine but the most
popular type of channel tend to be
youtube obviously right and the
different website that actually do blog
and
another one is uh podcast is getting so
popular now and there are millions of
podcasts out there so you can go to your
favorite uh listening platform such as
apple podcasts google podcasts or even
spotify to actually enter into keywords
and check some podcasts out but from my
perspective from my perspective if you
want to learn know-how specifically like
know how how to get things done blog and
the video are still the best format to
get it done right podcasts like you are
listening something you want to get some
general ideas that's good but in terms
of specific i will still focus on blog
and the video all right so that's the
first question
second question i want to start a blog
what should i do first to ensure i get
on the right track from the start
there's a couple of things first one you
probably need to have a blog platforms
and i know many of us actually use
wordpress so as long as you use
wordpress you can actually publish it on
your website or um that would be great
if you don't have a website you can
actually publish on the third party site
such as linkedin right if you have a
linkedin profile you want to share your
knowledge you can actually publish blog
posts on your linkedin profile okay so
that's a linkedin blog post and another
way that you can do if you don't have a
website is you publish on the third
party site so linkedin is one way or you
can actually reach out to a multiple
different publication companies uh such
as new york times the washington post or
even um uh uh huffington post and just
check on and see if they take any kind
of guest posts
for
sometimes they do you have to submit and
you have to get approved that's another
way to do it
i personally think if you really want to
start a blog you need to actually have a
a blog site of your own you have to have
your own website and a blog from your
website
the reason i said that is you want to
own your
platform right i have my own website
www.pmdinner.com
and i blog there i also add my podcast
there i also add select videos there
then i drive traffic to my site when you
have your own website you are in control
you have a control of your website you
have control of what that site will look
like you have a control in terms of what
you want to say
if you are published on the third party
site you are giving third party the
credit right you are driving traffic to
the third party site even you publish on
linkedin guess what people go to
linkedin to watch to read your blog post
that's actually
fine
but if you want to build your presence
digital presence you want to be build
your own followers i would come i would
suggest that you have your own site
that's the best way to do it like i said
if you have your own site it's kind of
like owning your virtual home
you have a control in terms of where the
furniture will go you have control in
terms of your narrative what you want to
say not someone else will control it
right
so the best way to start your own blog
is actually have your own site from my
perspective that's number one second
thing is
blog or um creating video or the podcast
it's not something that you create and
you stop
any kind of blog writing if you want to
gain following you want to rank well on
google you want to build your digital
presence it's a long play
does that make sense you have to publish
on a regular basis
right i'm not saying that you have to do
it like every day that's not my point
but you have to have a certain kind of
cadence and certain kind of frequency
you can publish once a week you can
publish twice a week or you can publish
just make sure that you have four out on
monthly basis right so if you want to
start blog posts it's not something that
you do and then you stop
you have it's kind of like you have to
keep it going if you want to uh build a
digital presence
that's
that's the drag of doing anything
in terms of writing a blog creating a
video or even a start a podcast
it's not something that you stop you
start and then you say oh i did 25 of
them then i checked that i checked that
off and i'm done no it's not you it's
kind of like you have to keep it going
well right to the point like you like to
the point you're like okay i'm done fine
that's good
but as a company doing a blog post is a
continuous effort that means you have to
allocate budget and resources to make
that happen does that make sense so
having editorial plan is also important
if you want to start a blog
so that's the second question the third
question is how can i create blog sorry
how can i create a blog and repurpose
the content across all my social
channels to
maximize the efficiency
for a long time
i would create one blog post and i will
write a standard copy and i will blast
them out to all my social media channel
linkedin twitter facebook instagram
same copy same image same call to action
and um that worked
okay you know like i said when i started
about seven years ago and that's what i
usually do it's a sense of efficiency
right you write one blog post you post
out to all the channel all at once same
copy blah blah blah
in the past two years i have made some
changes
and um now when i write a blog post
and uh i will write customize
a very customized uh a copy for that
blog post for different um
social media channels
so for linkedin i probably will uh take
a paragraph
of my blog post and i will explain
uh what this blog post is about my point
of view and i will say hey read more
drive traffic to that blog post
but when i do twitter i maybe just one
question you know the question is about
hey the differences between content
marketing and uh and content syndication
so i write on specific just one question
and then i will drive traffic to that
site
then for instagram i will write a little
bit differently you know have the image
that's very nice but i will have a
couple of the code to action the image
is about the specific
three or four bullet points
then i will talk about hey for that blog
post this is what uh i
um i discussed and what are some of the
key action if you want to find out more
you know
go to
linktree right something so because you
cannot really drive your traffic on
instagram to directly to your website
so repurposing the content or write a
copywriting for one blog post i have
made some changes
and i have to say there's no
one-size-fits-all
approach for social media promotions or
social media marketing you have to kind
of write a copywriting a little bit
differently for different channel
that's one okay the other one another
layer of complexity is for that blog
post can you repurpose that for podcasts
for video for everything else yes you
can
so i would write a blog post and i would
take a chunk of them
and especially it's addressed for a
specific question and there are specific
bullet points in terms of my how-to to
tell um say
the readers what they need to do i would
take that and i will create different
opening and different closing and then i
will create a podcast episode
so
for example i write how to scale a
global how to create a global marketing
plan right it's a long post of 2500
words
so what i did is a portion of it in
terms of okay how to create a content
marketing objective that by itself is
about 500 words
and i would take that and i would just
talk about it that specific um
topic create that as kind of like a
subtopic and then talk about it as a
part of the podcast
and i also know that for video
specifically majority majority of the
people who come to see my video tend to
only watch about eight minutes right
eight to ten minutes so again i will
take that similar topic and have a
different openings and different closing
and then make the core in terms of how
to create
say uh the marketing objectives and i
will talk about that just that specific
topic and go in depth but with a
different closing and different opening
for the video
so they are a way to repurpose your
content it does take time and effort
and you cannot just take one blog post
and say okay
that exactly things what i wrote i want
to just translate like copy exact to the
to the video or or to the podcast you
need to somehow modify it because when
people listen or when people watch the
video
they look for different things does that
make sense while when we are reading or
when we watching or when we listen
we tend to listen watch differently than
we read
so you kind of have to take that into
account again took me a while to get
there
but repurposing content is a great idea
but you have to take the channel into
account you know which channel that you
will promote that content and
and then also the formats what formats
you are going to use to actually
repurpose your content
channel and also format will determine
how you want to repurpose your content